Organnelles and what they do:

Animal/Plant cells:
    Cell Membrane: A layer that protects and surrounds cells.
    it controls substances that flow in and out the cell.
    
    Nucleus: Controls activities in the cell and cell
    reproduction. It contains deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA), which
    determines traits that are passed on when a cell reproduces.
    
    Ribosomes: These assemble or produce proteins in the cell.
    Some Are attached to the endoplasmic reticulum and some
    float freely in the cytoplasm.

    Cytoplasm: A gel-like fluid inside the cell. It contains
    water, other substances, and all the cell organelles.

    Mitochondrion: The plural is mitochondria. Here the cell 
    produces energy using the process of cellular respiration.
    (cellular respiration): 
        glucose + oxygen -> Carbon Dioxide, Water, Energy.

    EndoPlasmic Reticulum: Folded membranes that act as channels 
    to transport proteins and other materials through the 
    cytoplasm.

    Golgi Body: Recieves proteins from the endoplasmic reticulum,
    sorts them, and packages them into little bag-like structures
    called vesicles.

    Vacules: Structures that temporarily store water, other
    substances, and wastes in cells. Vacooules in plant cells are 
    usually much larger than those in animal cells.

    Vesicles: Membrane covered structures that carry proteins, 
    water, and nutrients around the cell and in and out of the
    cell.

    Lysosomes: structures that contain digestive chemicals like 
    enzymes, which break down and recycle worn-out organelles.

Animal cell only:
    Cilia: Tiny hair like structures attached to the body of some 
    cells. they can move together in a wave like fashion and help
    the cell move around.

    Flagellum: a lash-like structure attached to the body of some 
    cells. They can whip back and forth to help the cell swim 
    through liquid.

Plant cell only:
    Cell Wall (also in bacteria): A tough layer outside the cell
    membrane. It can be rigid, which helps a plant cell hold its
    shape. It also protects the cell.

    Chloroplasts: Do photosynthesis.
    (Photosynthesis):
         carbon dioxide + water + energy -> Sugar, oxygen